so in the previous video we talked about
creating an advanced screen to give you
an idea on how to go about building a
more complex screen interface and I just
want to show the screens once again
the one on the right hand side obviously
they're both the same screen but the one
on the left hand side is showing you how
it's set up in a grid layouts so you can see the orange lines showing you the
columns and rows and on the right hand
side is the actual screen will try to
build without the grid lines
so let's make a start on creating that now
in this video
we're going to do is open up the file that
we're working on the previous video we are
going to copy some code I'm going to
copy this first bit up to and including
the main line that geometry line copy all of
that taje a copy and I'm gonna go ahead and
create a new file right click click on
new click on Python file and I'm gonna
call this one screen and paste in that code
that's just our basic starting code instead of
hello world what I'm gonna do is call it grid
demo and we are going to leave the defaults
their 640 by 480 and then of course the
offsets that we had previously we are gonna
use those as well ok just bring up on the screen we want to add
the label first the labels on the first
line and notice how it spans multiple columns across we need to do the code for
that as well so type....
.....
......
...so lets run it and see what it looks like
now even thought we specified column
span equals 3 notice how it is still over to the
left hand side and you would think that
it should be centered because the
default value for sticky is centered but the
reason is we haven't given weights to the
columns or put anything in them so they don't
really exist until that point so we have
to sort of imagined them do in order to lay
everything out so once we set the weights
columns the labels should be
re-positioned correctly
let's go back and actually do that now
come down here before the main loop because of course
that's the last statement......
....lets go
ahead and copy some of this.....
......
....so that's our columns
configured then we need to do the same
thing for our rows so.....
......
...so row 0 only contains
the headings so files list box is going start
therefor on row 1 column 0 in case you're wondering but before
we see that lets just run this and what I need to do is close the one from last time and there it is you can see it
is a bit more centered now and if we look at our
images notice how
it's basically moved over a little bit
but it's still not fully moved over to
where we perhaps think it should be but
as we continue on in the demo will see
that should work
incidentally these screen shots were
taken on Linux and so really only
looking at the first part here the part above that is from the previous software that it comes with
the MAC so that is why it does look a little bit
different
ok so what to do next is add the listbox
let's go ahead and do that is gonna be
right under the row configure file list will call it.....
......
.......
......just like the column span we defined on line 12 rows span
does the similar thing but for rows we are gonna set that to 2 and we want to configure our
list box so....
...and just to be clear with
the sticky we are position the listbox
against the left-hand edge of the cell
we've done that by specifying west
and expanded to fill the entire cell
by also specifying east so we start of
west and went east we've also caused it to
expand to fill the entire height north and south so it's going to take up two rows
in the final layout and of course row span equals 2 does so that's why we're
actually specifying in sticky nsew so we want it to get to expand the entire height and
the entire width for those rows and I
mentioned that we added sunken and you
can see there there is other options you can
choose flat grooved raised ridge solid
as well as sunken so feel free to
experiment to see what they look like
I'm just gonna use sunken for this and what I'm gonna
do is create some code to populate the list
box so instead of having to type up a long
list of items manually what we're going
to do is we are going to generate one by
getting a directory listing of where we use
folder now on a Mac which right now on a
Linux I'm gonna type on a command and
if your in Windows you need to just
change and I'll actually tell you what to
command to type if you're on Windows being on Mac
I'm gonna type....abreviated for
list directory and OS is the
operating system code and what we need
to do is come back here in order to do
that and put an import.....
.....
....and what I'm gonna do is put in a directory which is....and that's applicable for
as I mentioned if your on a Mac or Linux
now if not
if your on a Windows machine instead of typing...../usr/bin
instead we type this.....
so basically replace the entire thing with
a single quotes we've replace that with
the / windows / system32 and that should
work give you a listing of some files
that are actually in your Windows folder the indented code is going to be....
...so it is going to
basically add the file name in case you're
wondering Tkinter.END when you're
inserting an item to a list box you
need to specify the insertion point so we are
using the Tkinter constant called end and
that places each entry at the end of the
list as they are added so you specified
a number for example we are changing Tkinter.END
into the number zero and the list is going to appear
in reverse because each item is going to be inserted at
the start of the list instead of the end we gonna leave it
at how it is now so lets run that
and see that it's working.....
....lets just run it
again
and look at our code and you can see there's a list of
file names that have been populated in their
but notice at the moment if you go back to what
we're trying to achieve with our interface
will need to add a scroll bar so were gonna do
that next so that we can actually see
what a scroll bar would look like so close that down come back to the code and add a scroll bar and will type....
.....yes it is a different component it's not part of the list box
......
.....obviously it needs to be vertical to match
up with the list box so....
.....
....and next we are gonna type something we haven't
talked about before which is command
so come back here command....
...so as I've mention we haven't seen command before but
this is how actions are associated with
widgets and UI events so here command is set
to the wide view method of the list box
and if you control click on wide view and if I do that
now you can see that it's
used to query and change the vertical
position and if the scroll bar was
horizontal then we would have to use xview instead of yview
to handle horizontal in this case we are
vertical so we are good to go with that
and on the next line......
......
...we want it to basically come down to be the same
length as the list box so there is one
further step involved in linking the
scroll box to the list box and that
using the y scroll Command Option
of the list box and that the
list box call the set method of the
scroll bar when it changes and the reason it might
change is for example if more items were
added or its scrolled using the keyboard
or mouse wheel now if the scroll bar was horizontal
then we would use a different commands so
but in this case its vertical so I'm going to type....
......
.....and that should be that so if we run that.....
you can see we've got
scrolling implemented which is pretty
cool we should be able to also
scroll with our key pressing the up and down arrow
key so that's cool we are making some
progress here our interface is starting to come
together and you can see that the
brilliant part of TKinter in Python
in general is it at this very few commands
that need to be typed to achieve quite a
significant graphical user interface
which is pretty cool ok so next what we
want to do is start looking we need to add a label frame first and if we bring the image back on the screen again we
want to actually create a frame and
settle this up so this heading
to save file details and we went to
actually have these radio buttons all
showing on the screen there so
let's go ahead and do that add that and I'll make a note
.....
......
...now what we're
doing is we're creating 3 radio
buttons that all share the same variable
and the reason we doing this is
only one can be selected any one time
so as you click on each one the one that
was previously selected is automatically
un-selected now the mechanism to do this
in Python relies on the Tkinter
control variables that can be bound to
one or more widgets and that's what we
gonna be doing here we've created this
tkinter.IntVar to do that and you'll see how that will work shortly.....
.....
......
.....because the
frame itself is attached to the main window
so the text for the first one if you recall was
file name so I'm gonna add that....
......and do the same to the other two
buttons we just change references
so....
...because each button you click we want a different value so we can
pragmatically determine which
button is clicked and time stamp was the
text for the third one and second one was path so that's how we associate and its
going to be one variable that we can
query and we'll know depending on the
value of that rbValue whether it's one
two or three as to which radio button was
actually clicked so lets just go ahead and add
it......
.....
......and what will also do just out of
interest and here I'm gonna do.....
.....and by adding that
we can get a printout of the number as
the radio button is clicked so you can confirm that
it is actually doing the right things and we should be able to run that
so let's run that and see that it's
working and notice we got our radio buttons now and now if I click on
and we are not going to get output now until I
actually close the program down because
we are obviously looping here on this line 51
but given the default value has change we should get a
value of 2 if I close this down you can see
that 2 has come up there and just to
confirm run again this time
I'm going to select option three their
which is that one close it down
we have the value of 3 so you can see
that we're actually getting the right value and we are just fine and incidentally the other thing I didn't
point out was the label frame on line 38
the reason I chose label
frame their as a frame is it's very similar to
frames we have use previously but it allows
a caption to be sent using the text
option and you can see that on line
38 I've added the text option which is cool but it
also adds that border
s o it draws a border around the content such so just
run it again should have mentioned that earlier so can
see it's allowed us to actually add the text about the actual name and its
also drawn this border around it so its
pretty neat so its ideal for like a set of
radio buttons that we got on the screen
there now ok so close that and on
line 53 .get that is obviously
retrieving the value wherever the
previous button has been
selected and we can do that
pragmatically then to determine the
course of action depending on which radio
button was actually clicked there's also
a .set as you can see where we set the
initial default values so if change that
to 2 and run again what that will do is
give you or it should default the middle
radio button as you can see there that's
the default option in case you're
wondering how it determines how many
radio buttons it is because we
specify rbValue on line 44 to 46
it know because that's that special type of an IntVar part of TKinter it knows how many radio
buttons because we're assigning that
multiple times and of course we're
setting the value as well ok so I'm
going to finish this video here now
in the next video we'll continue on and will
start looking at the other elements from
the GUI so see you in the next video